[SUSPENSEFUL MUSIC PLAYING]
>> When I was eight years old,
I had the habit of walking
through the fields and also
the forests that belonged
to the farm where
we were living.
I was living with my
parents back then.
And in 1970, I was
eight years old.
During summer
vacation, one day I
went walking in the forest,
and the forests to me--
I was eight years old.
The forest seemed magical
that day, seemed alive.
And after a while, I became
tired because it was very hot,
a hot summer day, and
I decided to sit down
on a big rock, big, gray rock.
The rock was
surrounded by trees.
After a few minutes,
I would say,
it seemed to me that the
trees became totally alive.
I became aware that
the trees were alive.
And also, I became
aware that even
the big, gray rock on which
I was sitting was alive.
And after that,
I realized that I
was part of a whole
continuum of life
and that I was deeply
connected to the rock,
to the trees, even to the
fields, and so on and so forth.
And then, I had a vision of
what would be my future life
and what was the goal of
my life plan, if you will.
And that's when I
saw clearly that I
was going to be involved
in a scientific movement.
An historical
movement that would
show that, contrary to what we
had been thinking in science
in general and in neuroscience
in particular, what we call
mind and also spirits are not
at all produced by the brain.
They are using the brain
to express themselves
in our human experience.
And so it became
clear to me that I
would become a
neuroscientist then
and that I would be one of
the key figures involved
in an historical movement
that would bring us
a new view, a new world view,
in which minds and consciousness
and spirit would
play a key role.
And they would not be considered
as simple elements that
are simply byproducts
of brain activity.
And this would create a global
transformation eventually.
And I was part of this process.
And this is exactly what
is happening 40-some years
after that, after my
initial vision, because this
is exactly what other scientists
have realized as well based
on certain experiments, studies.
If we look at all
the evidence now,
it becomes more and more evident
that mind and consciousness
and spirit are not simply
byproducts of brain activity.
And in my view, and also in
the view of my colleagues,
this realization will
eventually lead us
to the greatest
scientific revolution
that we've ever had in
the history of humanity.
[NATIVE AMERICAN CHANTING MUSIC
PLAYING]
>> "Expanding Reality."
Visionary scientists in
physics, cosmology, biology,
neuroscience, medicine,
psychology, and psy research
are founding the Academy for the
Advancement of Postmaterialist
Sciences.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
How do you define
mind, consciousness,
and spirituality?
[NATIVE AMERICAN CHANTING MUSIC
PLAYING]
What is the relationship between
consciousness and the universe?
[MUSIC PLAYING]
What does postmaterialist mean?
What are you passionate about
in this scientific revolution?
[MUSIC PLAYING]
"Expanding Reality."
[NATIVE AMERICAN CHANTING MUSIC
PLAYING]
In 1927, Einstein and
his venerable colleagues
gathered at the
Solvay Conference
to discuss the newly
formulated quantum theory.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
In 2017, Dr. Gary Schwartz
and his venerable colleagues
gathered in Arizona.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> I wonder if we put this on--
it says view slideshow
from the beginning.
>> --out and see if
you can see my slides?
>> Yeah, but where are you?
Oh, there you are.
Perfect.
>> That's me.
>> Yeah, there you are, Charlie.
This is perfect.
>> OK.
>> All right.
We can get back out of this now.
Stop share.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> They decide to create the
first postmaterialist academy
of sciences.
Postmaterialism represents
a new scientific way
of looking at the world.
In this view, matter represents
only one aspect of reality.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
What factors led you to
postmaterialist perspective?
>> I was trained in conventional
Western materialist science.
I was also raised in a
family that was areligious
and essentially atheist.
So for someone like
me, one would not
expect that I would end
up changing and then
eventually radically changing
my thinking about the nature
of reality, the nature
of the cosmos in what
has led to a
postmaterialist perspective.
And I would say that
a significant part
of that evolution was
ending up doing research
on the question of
survival of consciousness
after physical death
and other related areas,
where the evidence was so strong
that I was literally forced
by the evidence to
face the question.
And I ended up meeting
other scientists as well as
other people who
were highly credible,
who awakened me
to the realization
that not only was all of
this most likely true,
but that in order to have
integrity as a scientist,
to be a genuine scientist,
I had to follow the data.
And if the data took me
to reject some of the ways
that I had been educated
and to grow into new areas,
that's part of
the responsibility
of being a person who is seeking
knowledge, seeking truth.
And so the combination
of this kind
of research coupled with
meeting very gifted scientists
and others who were equally
moving in this direction
has led me to where I now
consider myself and identify
myself as a
postmaterialist thinker.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> What is the most important
discovery you did during
your career as a scientist?
>> I think that of all the
various areas that relate
to both materialist science and
postmaterialist science that
I've had the privilege to
work in, probably the most
startling, even more amazing
than research on life after
death and the active role that
consciousness on the other side
can play in our lives,
even greater than that,
I would have to say is research
on what's called synchronicity
and the things that connect
us in our lives with a greater
spiritual reality.
And in a new book
I've just published
called "Super Synchronicity--
Where Science and Spirit Meet,"
I share many examples of what
I call Type 3 synchronicities,
or super synchronicities,
of six or more events
occurring in complex ways
connecting people, which
are so far beyond chance--
the probability
of their occurring
is so infinitely
small by chance alone,
I call them astronomically
improbable--
that you end up leading
to the conclusion
that we are connected to
a living, unifying, super
intelligent, super
caring consciousness.
And we can connect with that
as we connect with other people
and live our lives accordingly.
And these kinds of integrative,
complex, rich synchronicities
cut across all kinds of people.
It includes doctors and
lawyers and business people
and artists and teachers and
students and you name it.
Almost any person that's
open-minded and pays attention
to patterns in their lives
under the right circumstances
will see that there are these
patterned events occurring.
They're non-random.
They provide, as
the Dalai Lama said,
he is open to the
guidance of synchronicity.
He does not let expectations
hinder his path.
Or as Albert Einstein
put it, he says,
coincidence is God's way
of remaining anonymous.
So we're beginning to find the
data that supports this notion,
and it really adds to the
richness of the pervasiveness
of super consciousness, super
intelligence, super love,
super caring in the
cosmos as a whole.
[NATIVE AMERICAN CHANTING MUSIC
PLAYING]
>> Funnelling his
childhood's vision,
neuroscientist Mario
Beauregard pursues his quest,
which leads him to meet with
the other postmaterialist
scientists.
[NATIVE AMERICAN CHANTING MUSIC
PLAYING]
>> Ever since I was
a very young child,
I would say that I've
been a postmaterialist,
and I would venture to say that
is true of every young child.
We are born aware that there's
sacred, loving consciousness
in us, through
us, and around us,
and a child can almost see
it vibrate before our eyes.
We're all postmaterialists.
And then again,
when consciousness
is expressed as matter,
as in the nature,
as in trees and wind, and babies
and mothers of all species,
that's sacred
consciousness arriving
as loving, material
manifestation.
And the child knows this too.
[MUSIC BOX PLAYING]
Science makes progress amongst
scientists and our culture.
And as our culture continues to
evolve and deepen in our shared
consciousness of the sacred,
our shared spiritual awareness,
naturally a
postmaterialist science
takes hold, makes
enormous sense,
and answers the
questions that we're so
longing of the heart
to see brought forward
into resolution.
[SOFT MUSIC PLAYING]
Every day, every second
is a spiritual experience.
[LAUGHTER] Today, my
spiritual experience
is being in the presence of
your great love and compassion.
Today, as all days, every single
person who comes into our path
is a messenger, a
sacred messenger.
And that includes, of course,
the birds and the deer.
And that holds us
at a great level
of spiritual responsibility to
honor the message, whether it's
from the homeless man, or
the teacher, or the child,
or the barista at Starbucks.
It's our great responsibility
to honor that sacred moment,
because that is actually
the ultimate fabric
of the universe.
[SOFT MUSIC PLAYING]
>> I mean, one of the
interesting questions in human
history, particularly
in Western cultures,
because it's very unique
to Western cultures,
it's not true in the
eastern cultures,
is why isn't consciousness
a fundamental in science?
How is it possible
that science has
evolved from this materialistic
perspective, which is basically
the animated meat view?
Dead meat, no consciousness.
And the answer is you
have to go back, really,
to the Council of
Trent 1545 to 1563,
over a period of about 18 years
as the Reformation movement was
starting.
The Roman church, which
was the church, faced
with growing Reformation
movement activity,
decided that they needed to
define what was their domain.
And in those 18 years,
over about 25 meetings,
they determined and stated
that the domain of the church
was things of the spirit and
that it was their provence
to control matters and study
into the matters of the spirit,
and that science,
which was then really
just beginning to emerge,
could handle everything
in the physical world.
And they didn't just
make a statement,
they focused the
Inquisition on this.
And so for not
just a generation,
but for several
hundred years, if you
got involved in matters
of consciousness-- now,
people did, of course.
But if you became too
prominent and too public
about your views
of consciousness,
you stood a very good chance of
being burned alive or tortured
and killed in some way.
And I think what happened
was that scientists--
two things.
Scientists, OK, we get
into trouble if we do that.
And the other thing was
that science as a process
was very new, and
so there were lots
of things to discover
in the spacetime world.
And the church was
OK with that, so they
focused on the physical
world, physical reality.
And over the generations,
because this went on
for multiple
generations, getting
involved with consciousness
was just a bad move
if you were a scientist.
And I mean, the last person
killed by the Inquisition
was in 1826 in Spain.
A man was garroted
for teaching deism.
So I think what happened
was that what started out
as a warning became a
taboo, became something
that just you didn't discuss.
[DRAMATIC MUSIC PLAYING]
And so by the time we
get to the modern era,
consciousness has
simply vanished,
and a rationalization,
materialism,
has emerged, which
basically says consciousness
is an emergent property of
the physiological structure
of the body.
Now, the problem is
that, unfortunately,
that model, that world view,
doesn't address the data.
Thomas Kuhn, who was the
leading philosopher of science
and historian of science
in the 20th century,
wrote a very important
book, "The Structure
of Scientific Revolutions."
And he describes
very much the process
of how these paradigms change.
And he says, anomalies
begin to accumulate, things
that the existing paradigm
just can't seem to explain.
And as they accumulate
more and more,
the paradigm goes into
crisis because it's
inadequacies become so
prominent that they simply
can't be ignored.
And then, there
is a period where
the paradigm is in crisis,
and then slowly a new paradigm
begins to emerge.
And I think that's
where we are now.
Materialism, which has
served us very well
and done wonderful
things, has simply
gotten to a point
where it does not
address all of the research data
just on the basis of evidence.
It's very hard to get people
to change their point of view.
A man named Dan Kahan at Yale
headed a team of researchers
who looked at why is it
hard to get people to change
their minds in
science, and discovered
that, for most scientists,
the views of their peer group
are more important than facts.
[DRAMATIC MUSIC PLAYING]
>> In my view, the main
elements of what we could call
the emerging
postmaterialist paradigm,
they are the following.
First, we recognize that
mind is a fundamental element
of the universe.
It is primordial, as
primordial as matter, energy,
and spacetime for instance.
And it cannot be reduced
to something more basic,
like matter.
This is why we say it is
an elementary principle.
[NATIVE AMERICAN CHANTING MUSIC
PLAYING]
The second aspect of the
emerging postmaterialist
paradigm is the
recognition that mind,
for instance will, intention,
thoughts, act as a force,
because it has the capacity to
transform the world physically,
biologically.
So we can alter what's going
on in our brains, for instance,
by changing our thoughts, our
emotions, our belief systems.
And it's possible
to not only change
the activity of the brain region
involved in those processes,
but also the structure of the
brain itself, white matter
and gray matter for instance.
And this action of
the mind as a force
is not restricted,
confined, to the limits
of the body, because it
can exert an impact that we
call non-local.
That is, beyond the
limits of our body.
So it's not limited to a
specific point in space,
like the brain or
the body, and nor
is it restricted to a
specific point in time,
such as the present.
So that's another
important element.
Another aspect is that what
we call mind and consciousness
in the physical world,
they appear superficially
to be separated
in our experience.
But in reality, they
are not separated.
They are deeply
interconnected, which
allows for the interaction
between mind and matter,
for instance.
And they are totally, or
deeply, interconnected
because they arise out
of a common source,
a common principle, that
is at the origin of both
the mental world and
the physical world.
And in my view, it is what
we could call consciousness,
but with a big C, compared
to our consciousness
at the human level.
And then finally, another major
aspect of this new paradigm
is the idea that it's not
the brain that produces
mind and consciousness.
Mind and consciousness,
rather, use the brain
to express themselves
and manifest themselves.
[DRAMATIC MUSIC PLAYING]
>> What does
consciousness mean to me?
I have the feeling that
I am aware of myself,
so consciousness is
certainly self-awareness.
I can infer that other
people probably also
have some kind of awareness.
So from an idea of
separate objects,
separate people
having this quality,
this interiority
quality, that's one way
of thinking about consciousness.
From another perspective,
because I am also a meditator,
I recognize that what
I'm talking about here
is like a surface
level of awareness.
We begin to deep
down in awareness,
it begins to diffuse in a
way, and so the separation
begins to disappear.
So consciousness is
a very large term.
It probably can be
thought of in terms
of many levels of hierarchy.
But our minds naturally
try to carve up things,
so there really is no hierarchy,
or levels, or anything.
It's just the way
we think about it.
I think consciousness
is what everything
is made out of in a sense.
That doesn't really say
what consciousness is.
It's something
that, at this point,
we don't actually have a
good definition for it.
But it seems as though
the direction that science
is moving is going
towards consciousness
as some kind of substrate, a
ground state from which things
arise.
And our bodies
and even our minds
are aspects of those
things that are arising.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> Can a single person influence
collective consciousness?
>> 3, 2, 1, and booster ignition
and liftoff of space shuttle
Discovery, taking the space
station to full power for full
science.
>> This is mission
control Houston.
>> Roll program.
>> What fuels discovery?
>> Discovery--
>> Well, I would say that from
studies where we're looking
at the effects on the
physical world of the shifts
of attention of lots of people,
that we see that there is
a very large mind-matter
interaction going on, from
collective mind to, usually,
a small number of detectors
of various types.
But the question,
then, is if you
have a very remarkable
person, a single person,
could they do the
equivalent of a very large
mind-matter interaction or
perhaps telepathic interaction?
I don't see why not.
The degree to which
they'd have an effect?
I don't know.
But one thing that we
do know from experiments
is that when you begin to look
at the distribution of talent
for these kinds of phenomena
among the general population,
it looks very much
like a bell curve.
So most people are going to
fit in the middle of the curve.
You're going to get a
small percentage who
are very far out on the right
side of the curve, which
is very high
talent, and they can
do things that seem impossible,
except that they can do it.
And the way I
think of it is it's
not that different than someone
like an Olympic athlete.
Compared to an average
person, they're
doing something which
is almost unbelievable.
Still, we believe it because
we can meet those people,
and we see it on television.
But their level
of physical effort
is way beyond what a
normal person can do.
And the same is true in
the level of either mind
or consciousness.
People can do very
strange things.
[NATIVE AMERICAN CHANTING MUSIC
PLAYING]
>> Consciousness is
the underlying reality.
It's not made of anything.
Everything is made
of consciousness.
It is the reality out of
which the universe is made,
so-called physical
reality is made,
non-physical reality is made.
Everything is made of conscious.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
It started being there.
It is there.
It will be there forever.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
If we follow the
actual word itself,
"con" and "sciousness,"
it comes from "scientia,"
which is a Latin word
and also finds its--
the Latin word goes into
French and Spanish, et cetera,
et cetera.
It means knowledge, so
"conscientia" or consciousness
means to know of something.
But actually, in
the West, it sort of
has come about to mean
know of something else.
But in fact, in my
view, consciousness
means just the knowledge or the
awareness of something, which
can be consciousness
of one's own self,
so I prefer the term
awareness or pure awareness.
So because we really have
only one word, consciousness,
whereas in the East they
have at least 20 words
for consciousness, we have
to maybe differentiate
between what I call little
consciousness, or consciousness
with a little c, to indicate
the consciousness associated
with human mind,
and capital C, which
is universal consciousness,
or universal awareness,
or cosmic
consciousness, which is
the collective consciousness.
So it becomes a little
bit, perhaps, complicated,
but we have to
differentiate to indicate
the local and the global
aspects of consciousness.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> When Menas Kafatos talks
about the consciousness,
the energy, he talks exactly
like Heraclitus in ancient
times when Heraclitus developed
the concept of the Logos.
The Logos means
exactly that say Menas.
It's a continuum of the energy.
And it's very interesting,
because in theology,
when we read them the gospel
of St. John in old Greek,
we see the word "Logos."
And John writes Logos
means God, the energy,
the continuum of the energy.
So postmaterialist,
it's very interesting,
because postmaterialist
is exactly
the continuity of all
the acknowledge that we
know in theology, for example.
Or in Buddhism, when Dalai
Lama explained that Buddhism,
it's not a religion, it's
a science of the mind.
It's exactly like when
[INAUDIBLE],, [INAUDIBLE],,
the last descendant
of [INAUDIBLE],,
the first disciple of the
Buddha, who wrote the teaching.
So [INAUDIBLE] say to me all
the time, all is interdependent.
For example, we know in science
and with postmaterialist,
as explained also
Dr. Mario Beauregard,
that our emotions are connected
to every cell of our body.
It is the reason why,
when we are stressed,
we destroy our immune system.
And when we are calmer
in our daily lives,
we upgrade our immune system.
So all is impermanent,
all is interdependent.
And postmaterialist is
a continuity of all the
acknowledge that we have in
spirituality since thousands
and thousands centuries.
[DRAMATIC MUSIC PLAYING]
>> So I've been looking
for the soul of science.
I talk about looking
for the soul of science,
and I also talk about looking
for the science of your soul.
And I see them as
two different things.
So just to clarify, I see
the science of the soul
as taking the
scientific process,
the beautiful
the deep scientific process of
being inspired about something,
and then being drawn and
compelled to study it,
and then discovering
that you were wrong.
That's usually pretty much
the next thing that happens.
You discover that
you were wrong,
but you don't care,
because now you're
in love with the question.
And then going back around the
loop, talking to other people
about what they found.
And doing that
loop, and I called
that the deep
scientific process.
So the science of
your soul, or I
call it the science of the
work of your soul, that's
about taking that process
and applying it to your soul,
as opposed to taking
the same process
and applying it to a star system
in another galaxy, or a virus
and how it replicates, or any
other thing that we normally
think of taking the scientific
process and applying it to.
But the science of your soul
is about taking that same
process-- because science is
like a verb, it's a process--
and applying it to your soul.
And so it means doing
experiments in your life
and with your soul,
with awareness
of your inner self,
and your inner state,
and your authentic self
to find out who you are
and what you can
bring to the world.
So it's a whole
different thing, but not
at all a different thing,
in a way, from the sight
the soul of science.
It seems to me the
soul of science,
if we're sticking with
the definition of soul
as the thing that
connects the little c
individual consciousness
to the sort big C--
it's not really anywhere, so I
put it everywhere-- the big C
consciousness.
If science has a soul like
a human being has a soul,
then it would be something
that connects the act of doing
science-- the verb of science,
or the process of science--
to the greater whatever
you want to call it.
The thing that we
can never figure out
what to call-- the big C,
or the god, or the light,
or whatever it is,
nature, the universe.
So that would be
the soul of science,
and I'm always sort
of looking at that.
It's like trying to find the
essence of what is really
the holographic image of the
greater reality within science
itself, and that's almost a
sociological pursuit in a way.
And it's a very
mystical pursuit.
[NATIVE AMERICAN CHANTING MUSIC
PLAYING]
>> So there are multiple
lines of evidence supporting
a non-materialist view.
One of these evidences
concerns what
we called the
near-death experience,
near-death experience or NDs.
They are very vivid and
realistic experiences
that have profound
consequences that
very often lead to a
psychospiritual transformation
for the experiencers.
And these experiences
occur when the individual
is physiologically or
psychologically close to death.
And sometimes the
near-death experience
is induced by a cardiac arrest.
Then when there's
a cardiac arrest,
there's a cessation of the blood
flow to the brain very rapidly.
And if you are measuring
the electrical activity
in the brain, it
vanishes totally, usually
after 15 to 20 minutes--
seconds, pardon.
And in that kind of state, the
individual, the experiencer,
is considered to be in a
state of clinical death.
So according to
mainstream neuroscience,
in that kind of state, in
principle, the experiencer
shouldn't be able to have
any perception, memories,
emotions, also a self-identity,
and so on and so forth.
But during the last
15 years, there
have been a number of
studies in the United States,
United Kingdom, and other
countries reporting over
150 cases of people who
were clinically dead,
and yet they were able
to have mental activity.
And not only that, but
their mental activity
was enhanced compared to the
normal state of consciousness.
And in some cases,
the experiencers
have the impression of
leaving their physical body,
and they will be able
to report information,
for instance, dialogues between
the nurses and some doctors.
And this information will be
confirmed after the person is
resuscitated.
We call that
theoretical perception.
So that's one avenue
that stands directly
against the materialist
view of the mind.
But there are other
lines of evidence,
like the research
about psy phenomena,
also the research
about mediumship,
and studies of what's going on
after death regarding survival,
for instance.
For example, what we
call deathbed visions,
after death
communications, and also
the research done
on reincarnation.
That's another
evidence supporting
a non-materialist view of
the mind and consciousness.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> I think one of the things
that if I could spread
a message to the entire world,
it would be that all of us have
abilities, that if we just take
the time to look around us,
to explore, we'll find out
that we have these abilities.
And so much of it is the ability
to imagine what's possible,
then to believe it
can be possible,
and then the will
to bring that forth.
And if you have
that combination,
you can achieve whatever your
heart's desire is, if you've
got the right intention.
And I think that that's a really
important message for people
today, because what has
happened with modern science
is that it has devalued
what it means to be alive.
And it has devalued who we are.
It has devalued species
other than our own
in a way in which life
has lost its sacredness
for so many people.
And so what I want people to
realize is how sacred life is.
[MUSIC PLAYING] (SINGING) Heyo,
warrior, warrior, warrior.
Hey!
Heyo, warrior, warrior, warrior.
No, no, no, no,
no, no, no, no, no.
Yo, da, do, dee, dee, do-way!
Yo, da, do, yo,
da, do, yo, no, no.
Yo, do, do, do, doya!
Yo, da, do, yo,
da, do, yo, da, do.
Yo, dun, do, dee, dee, do-way!
Twi, ni, yo, dede, yo, lala, yo!
Yo, da, do, do, tie, ya!
[THUNDER]
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> When I was growing up,
as far as I can recall,
I had no spiritual
experiences whatsoever.
And I was not aware of
even the possibility
of having spiritual experiences
until after I became
a tenured professor at Yale.
And then spiritual experiences
became more frequent
as I opened myself
up to the possibility
of having those experiences.
And they were
evidential, meaning
that I could independently
verify that experiences
that I was having, information
that I was receiving
was related to life and
to my personal life.
I'll never forget an event that
happened when I was struggling
with was there a greater
reality and could we
communicate with some sort
of higher consciousness?
And in a book I wrote called
"The G.O.D. Experiments," where
G.O.D. stands for guiding,
organizing, designing process,
I confessed how one could ask
a question of the universe
and then have
information be received
which one could validate.
And I included an account
where I asked the universe
for another name for God,
because that word has
so many negative connotations to
many people, including myself.
And what popped into my head was
the name Sam, which I thought
was ridiculous.
I thought either it was
my creative unconscious
or I was experiencing
a Woody Allen movie.
But then when I went
to the dictionary
and looked up the
root of the word Sam,
which of course is
short for Samuel,
I discovered that it actually
comes from the ancient Hebrew.
And it actually means
"the name for God,"
which I certainly did
not know and most people
that I knew at that
time didn't know either.
So I began to learn that
these ancient traditions,
for example, of under
the right circumstances
asking questions and then
allowing information to come,
could be received in ways
which we could then empirically
verify.
And so I, in part of
my own personal life
now, practice what I call
evidence-based faith,
or evidence-based spirituality.
A self-science approach,
which I've learned
is also the essence
of what great mystics
throughout recorded
history have done.
It wasn't just their
fantasies, they were constantly
testing and seeing
to what extent
their experiences
fit the real world.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
(SINGING) Ayom, ayom, ayomlida.
>> I wanted to be part of
the Academy when, in fact,
Gary Schwartz originally asked
me if I would co-organize it
with him, because just
hearing that name,
the Academy of
Postmaterialist Sciences,
made me incredibly joyful and
hopeful that we actually might
change our limited way of
looking at the universe.
And I also noted that when I
would tell my colleagues that
do a little
meditation in addition
to their neuroscience
research, or my students who
happen to be interested in
these areas about the fact
that we were
forming the Academy,
their faces would light up.
And they would say,
can I join too?
When will this start?
And I realized
there was a hunger
for people to actually
begin to explore
this in a very public way.
So I think one of the reasons
I want to be part of it
is that we have been hiding
our dual nature as scientists
and meditators, people
interested in spirituality way
too long.
And when we hide it and
we don't talk about it,
other people are not even
aware that we have this broader
understanding of consciousness.
So I think that once we
really roll out the society,
we will find that many, many
more scientists in the world
and other people
beyond scientists
have had similar experiences.
And people will
begin to share it
in a whole new way
that allows them
to feel comfortable,
and not isolated,
having these experiences.
I think it will really
change our society.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
(SINGING) Ayom, ayom.
We can be the [INAUDIBLE].
We can be the max ayom.
A messium ayom.
Menahem, I want to feel it.
Menahem--
>> Today we know that
the quantum universe,
which emerged in the 1900s
with Max Planck's publishing
of the photo with the
black-body radiation,
then by Albert Einstein,
the photoelectric effect,
and Niels Bohr, and et
cetera, et cetera in the 1900s
to the 1920s and '30s.
We now know that the universe,
the quantum universe,
is really radically different
from the Cartesian universe.
And in this quantum
universe, the observer
plays a very important role.
The observer is
part of the system.
In fact, you cannot conceive
of the system without
the observer, who is
part of the system.
You cannot think of somehow
the observer being somewhere
a passive participant in
the universe just existing
by itself.
It is the universe and the
observer forming one system.
And therefore, if you ask
questions about the universe,
you have to ask what is
the role of the observer.
This is the observer effect.
Now, it's a little bit
more complicated than that,
and I realize that it's
simplified a little bit.
But in fact, in views
such as Richard Feynman,
and Bohr before him, and
John Archibald Wheeler,
you can't even say that quantum
particles, or quantum entities,
quanta in general even have
properties until an observation
takes place.
It's a very radical idea
in a Cartesian universe,
because in a Cartesian universe,
the particles are definite.
They have definite properties.
All you need to do is to observe
them, and there they are.
But in the quantum universe,
until an observation
takes place--
and the context of the
observation is very important.
And the context
of the observation
is tied to the observer.
It's tied to the
observational choices
that the observer makes.
Totally different point of view
than the Cartesian universe.
That's the observer effect.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
(SINGING) In the
darkest night, I
am waiting for a
new [INAUDIBLE]..
In the deepest gloom, I am
searching for [INAUDIBLE]..
In the darkest night,
in the darkest night,
I am waiting for
a new [INAUDIBLE]..
>> Now, the [INAUDIBLE]
mechanism is the [INAUDIBLE] is
primary, that if you didn't have
[INAUDIBLE] as being primary,
then this will not make sense.
Then you say, well--
and that's why, in fact,
this paradigm, this quantum
paradigm, is so radical within
the classical point of view.
It makes no sense in the
classical point of view.
It's crazy.
And I have to say, that crazy
from what point of view?
Well, from the point of view
of the sensory mind-body point
of view, which lives in
four-dimensional spacetime,
which thinks itself as a
four-dimensional mechanical
entity.
Mind-body.
We think ourselves as being
mind-body, and that's it.
But if you expand that
horizon, say, well,
we're beyond a four-dimensional
mind-body the entity.
We're more than that.
Then the boundaries
begin to break down.
And that is the
quantum universe.
So then the question arises--
what is it?
Is the quantum universe
crazy, or the way
we view the universe is crazy?
That's a valid question.
And then the question
arises-- what is really crazy?
Nothing is crazy, it's just
a different perspective.
There's nothing wrong
with the quantum view,
and there's nothing wrong
with the classical view.
They're different perspectives.
[CLASSICAL MUSIC PLAYING]
>> I think that in
our current society,
that is very materialistic,
we tend to be very divided,
politically right
now, especially.
And we are often talking
about the other group,
or the other people,
or whatever else
as if they are very,
very different from us.
And we don't feel a lot
of compassion for them.
In a postmaterialist scientific
community, first of all,
I believe that
people would spend
more time stilling their
minds, quieting their minds.
And we know that
actually what meditation
does is it increases our
compassion for ourselves
and for other people.
Once you increase
your compassion
for yourself and
for others, you tend
to feel much more
interconnectedness.
And in that way, you stop
feeling that separation
between yourself
and other people,
and you start wanting to
nurture the people around you,
the world around you,
the animals around you.
And I think it would actually
bring our world into a much
more loving balance,
and we would
protect other people
and the environment
in much more beautiful
ways, I think.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> According to the
Health Department,
in America 75% of
American people,
we are close to burnout.
We have too much stress.
The mind is running
all the time.
So why we are stressed?
I think one of the
causalities of the stress,
it's because our mind,
it's too much small.
We have fears.
We have doubt.
We have a lot of problems
because we see our life
through a little perception.
For example, we are
afraid of the death.
We think the death, this
is the end of the life.
But in postmaterialism,
we expand our reality.
We expand our
perception of the life.
And we realize, like
Albert Einstein explained,
that our perception
of the world, it's
an illusion of
the consciousness.
We realize, for
example, for the death,
that there is a continuum.
Death, life, it's like seasons.
It's cycles, and
cycles, and cycles,
of life, of continuum of
energy, like Dr. Mario
Beauregard and Professor
Gary Schwartz explained.
So it's really
important, because when
we have another
perception of reality,
when we have a true
when we expand our reality,
suddenly we feel better.
We have less fears, less doubt.
We have more care,
and it's easier
to stop our brain from
running all the time.
So I really think that
postmaterialist perception
of the reality,
it's a wonderful way
to be more happy, to be more
calm, to become intelligent.
[SOFT MUSIC PLAYING]
>> In the footsteps of Albert
Einstein and his colleagues,
Dr. Gary Schwartz and his
collaborators create and found
the Academy for the Advancement
of Postmaterialist Sciences.
It's a true
scientific revolution
including fields such as
neuroscience, psychology,
mathematics, physics,
and psy research.
They founded this Academy
in Tucson, 2017 August,
on the most sacred land of the
Apaches and Navajos of Arizona.
These tribes also
had a limitless view
of life, profound knowledge
about the elements, the trees,
the stars, the plants, the
minerals, our emotions,
a true science of nature.
[SOFT MUSIC PLAYING]
Postmaterialist scientists speak
of resonance, quantum flow.
The Native Americans speak of
spirits of nature, the trees,
for example.
And these same
trees, the science
discovered their communication
through their roots.
[SOFT MUSIC PLAYING]
One can describe reality
with one's own words.
Everything that we
see, we think we know.
But maybe if we go back
to what Einstein said,
our perception of reality
is just the consciousness
of the illusion.
[SOFT MUSIC PLAYING]